Hi everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're going to continue our exploration of pipings methods
and we're going to talk about the lower method.
So what exactly does that mean.
Well it's it does exactly what it says on the tin.
So let's go back to our name example.
So we have name and we're going to start for the opening closing double quotes.
I don't to impart my name or as you type your name I'm going to put them in or Piquet's characters like
this.
Tony Stanton in upper case so let's assume someone has entered your name into your shiny new program
and it's all in uppercase like this.
Obviously we don't want to put that into a database or into our storage system which may be a file like
this.
We want it all the same because some people might enter their name in lowercase or capitalize the first
initial like we saw in a previous example.
So what we want going into our database has to be all the same and all the same formatted information
so that we can use here is whitens lower method.
So as we've seen with other methods we have dot o w e or opening close brackets.
And what I will do now now it will lower the string.
Tony and to all lowercase characters.
So let's have a look at what we get.
Print name and let's run this program control command and see if you run a Mac perfect reader.
Here we have now down here in the bottom right Tony Staunton.
All in nice lower characters cleanly formatted and ready to go into our database or any other file storage
system.
So that's a quick introduction into Python's lower method.
To be honest it's one of my favorite because it's very useful and it's used all the time.
I hope that was easy enough and I'll see you in the next lecture.
Thank you.